Documentation/Documentation.md, before:

# 💙🤍Documentation🤍💙

## 📘Table of Contents

1. [📘Table of Contents](#📘table-of-contents)
2. [🖖Introduction](#🖖introduction)
3. [💩Group members](#💩group-members)
4. [🎨Network Design](#🎨network-design)
    1. [🎨Globel Design](#🎨globel-design)
    2. [🎨WAN Design](#🎨wan-design)
    3. [🎨DMZ Design](#🎨dmz-design)
    4. [🎨LAN Design](#🎨lan-design)
5. [🔎Addressing/names](#🔎addressingnames)
6. [🚬VPN Services](#🚬vpn-services)
    1. [🚬VPN Settings For A Client](#🚬vpn-settings-for-a-client)
    2. [🚬Server Settings](#🚬server-settings)
    3. [🚬VPN Test](#🚬vpn-test)
7. [🛡️Firewall Rules](#🛡️firewall-rules)
8. [🪖DMZ Services](#🪖dmz-services)
9. [🧮Testing](#🧮testing)
10. [🚀X Factor](#🚀x-factor)
11. [📁Attachments](#📁attachments)
    1. [📁Router Configurations](#📁router-configurations)
    2. [📁Firewall Configurations](#📁firewall-configurations)
    3. [📁Server Configurations & Scripts](#📁server-configurations--scripts)
    4. [📁Timesheets](#📁timesheets)
12. [🔗References](#🔗references)

---

## 🖖Introduction

This is the documentation for the project of the course `Network 2 - ISB` at the `KDG`. The goal of this project is to create a network with a DMZ, LAN, WAN, VPN, and a firewall. The network should be able to handle high availability, load balancing, and stress tests...

## 💩Group members

- Student 1: Elias De Hondt 0160712-80
- Student 2: Kobe Wijnants 0163403-55

## 🎨Network Design

### 🎨Globel Design
![Globel Design](/images/globel_design.png)

### 🎨WAN Design
![WAN Design](/images/wan_design.png)

### 🎨DMZ Design
![DMZ Design](/images/dmz_design.png)

### 🎨LAN Design
![LAN Design](/images/lan_design.png)

## 🔎Addressing/names

### 🔎Globel
| Name            | IP Address                  | Interface |
|-----------------|-----------------------------|-----------|
| Router 1        | 10.10.1.1, 255.255.255.254  | Gig0/0    |
| Router 2        | 10.10.1.5, 255.255.255.254  | Gig0/0    |
| Router 1        | 10.10.4.1, 255.255.255.0    | Gig1/0    |
| Router 2        | 10.10.4.2, 255.255.255.0    | Gig1/0    |

### 🔎LAN
| Name            | IP Address                  | Interface |
|-----------------|-----------------------------|-----------|
| Server 3 (DNS)  | 10.10.3.10, 255.255.255.0   | Fa0       |
| Server 4 (DHCP) | 10.10.3.11, 255.255.255.0   | Fa0       |
| Router 3        | 10.10.3.1, 255.255.255.0    | Gig2/0    |
| Router 3        | 10.10.1.2, 255.255.255.254  | Gig0/0    |
| Router 3        | 10.10.1.6, 255.255.255.254  | Gig1/0    |
| Switch 3        | 10.10.3.2, 255.255.255.0    | Lo0       |

### 🔎DMZ
| Name            | IP Address                  | Interface |
|-----------------|-----------------------------|-----------|
| Server 1 (Web)  | 10.10.4.10, 255.255.255.0   | Gig0      |
| Server 1 (Web)  | 10.10.4.11, 255.255.255.0   | Gig1      |
| Server 2 (Web)  | 10.10.4.12, 255.255.255.0   | Gig0      |
| Server 2 (Web)  | 10.10.4.13, 255.255.255.0   | Gig1      |

## 🚬VPN Services

As a VPN solution we will use tailscale, this is a zero-config VPN based on wireguard.

Tailscale utilizes WireGuard's encryption and authentication mechanisms to establish secure peer-to-peer connections between devices. It assigns each device a unique tailnet IP and has dashboard for easy maintainability.

### 🚬VPN Settings For A Client

#### 🚬Linux

- Open the terminal and run:

```bash
sudo curl -fsSL https://tailscale.com/install.sh | sh
```

- Enter the root password and run the following command

```bash
sudo tailscale up
```
- Copy and Paste the link in your browser and login

- Click Connect and you should be connected to the tailnet

#### 🚬Windows

- Download the following msi installer

[Tailscale Download](https://tailscale.com/download)

- Run the installer

- Click Next and Install

- Then login and you should be connected to the tailnet

### 🚬VPN Settings For A Server

- Open the terminal and run:

```bash
sudo curl -fsSL https://tailscale.com/install.sh | sh
```

- Enter the root password

- Request an auth key at: [Tailscale Login](https://login.tailscale.com/admin/settings/keys)

- Use the auth key in the following command and add `--ssh` so you can use tailscale ssh
```bash
sudo tailscale up --authkey=[Authkey] --ssh
```

- The server should now be connected to the tailnet

### 🚬VPN Settings For A Router

We will use a pfsense router for this because it has a package manager with a "Tailscale" package in it.

- Go to the package manager and install "Tailscale"

- Then, go to VPN > Tailscale > Authentication

- Request an auth key at: [Tailscale Login](https://login.tailscale.com/admin/settings/keys) and fill it in

- Then go to tailscale settings and enable the service

- Finnally advertise the subnet you want to share with your vpn clients

### 🚬VPN Test

- Ping to a DMZ service

The left powershell window is on my local machine, the right terminal is on a debian machine running docker with some web services.
On both machines tailscale is installed and working.

![ping to DMZ service](/Images/test_VPN_ping_to_DMZ_service.gif)

- Ping to router and ip's advertised by the router

## 🛡️Firewall Rules
- Router 1 (Gig1/0):
    - Allow port `80` from the `WAN` to the `DMZ`
    - Allow port `443` from the `WAN` to the `DMZ`
    - Allow port `80` from the `DMZ` to the `LAN`
    - Allow port `443` from the `DMZ` to the `LAN`
    - Deny all other traffic

- Router 1 (Gig0/0):
    - Deny all traffic from the `WAN` to the `LAN`
    - Allow port `80` from the `LAN` to the `WAN`
    - Allow port `443` from the `LAN` to the `WAN`
    - Allow port `80` from the `LAN` to the `DMZ`
    - Allow port `443` from the `LAN` to the `DMZ`

- Router 2 (Gig1/0):
    - Allow port `80` from the `WAN` to the `DMZ`
    - Allow port `443` from the `WAN` to the `DMZ`
    - Allow port `80` from the `DMZ` to the `LAN`
    - Allow port `443` from the `DMZ` to the `LAN`
    - Deny all other traffic

- Router 2 (Gig0/0):
    - Deny all traffic from the `WAN` to the `LAN`
    - Allow port `80` from the `LAN` to the `WAN`
    - Allow port `443` from the `LAN` to the `WAN`
    - Allow port `80` from the `LAN` to the `DMZ`
    - Allow port `443` from the `LAN` to the `DMZ`

## 🪖DMZ Services
- This will all be achieved with apache2 and a simple database a .csv file. A webpage will be hosted on multiple web servers. On this webpage, you can modify a value that will change the background color of the webpage. This new value will be stored in a file or database. Subsequently, the other web servers will be automatically updated with the new background.

- Database
    - [CSV File](/Scripts/database.csv)
- Apache2 Webserver 1
    - [Index File](/Scripts/index1.php)
    - [Apache2 Config](/Scripts/webserver1.conf)
- Apache2 Webserver 2
    - [Index File](/Scripts/index2.php)
    - [Apache2 Config](/Scripts/webserver2.conf)
- Apache2 Load Balancer
    - [Apache2 Config](/Scripts/loadbalancer.conf)

- Everything will be hosted on one Ubuntu server 20.04 LTS 64-bit with apache2 for the demo. See the [Network Design](#🎨network-design) for the real physical setup.

```bash
# Basic setup:
sudo apt update && sudo apt upgrade -y
sudo do-release-upgrade -d # Optional - upgrade to latest Ubuntu LTS
sudo apt install openssh-server -y
sudo apt install apache2 -y
sudo apt install php libapache2-mod-php -y
sudo apt install git -y
sudo a2enmod proxy proxy_http
sudo a2enmod lbmethod_byrequests

# Firewall Configuratie:
sudo ufw allow 22
sudo ufw allow 80
sudo ufw allow 8001
sudo ufw allow 8002
sudo ufw enable # Or sudo ufw disable

# Configure static IP for the server:
sudo nano /etc/netplan/00-installer-config.yaml
# Add the following:
network:
  version: 2
  renderer: networkd
  ethernets:
    ens33:
      dhcp4: no
      addresses: [192.168.70.133/24]
      gateway4: [192.168.70.1/24]
      nameservers:
        addresses: [8.8.8.8, 8.8.4.4]

sudo netplan apply

# Configure Webserver 1 & 2 + Load Balancer:
sudo rm -r /var/www/html
sudo rm -r /etc/apache2/sites-available/000-default.conf
sudo rm -r /etc/apache2/sites-available/default-ssl.conf
sudo rm -r /etc/apache2/sites-enabled/000-default.conf
git clone https://github.com/EliasDeHondt/Netwerken2-ISB.git
sudo mkdir /var/www/webserver1
sudo mkdir /var/www/webserver2
sudo cp Netwerken2-ISB/Scripts/index1.php /var/www/webserver1/
sudo cp Netwerken2-ISB/Scripts/index2.php /var/www/webserver2/
sudo cp Netwerken2-ISB/Scripts/webserver1.conf /etc/apache2/sites-available/
sudo cp Netwerken2-ISB/Scripts/webserver2.conf /etc/apache2/sites-available/
sudo cp Netwerken2-ISB/Scripts/loadbalancer.conf /etc/apache2/sites-available/
sudo a2ensite webserver1.conf
sudo a2ensite webserver2.conf
sudo a2ensite loadbalancer.conf

# Database setup:
sudo cp Netwerken2-ISB/Scripts/database.csv /var/www/
sudo chmod 755 /var/www/database.csv

# Clean up:
sudo systemctl reload apache2
sudo rm -r Netwerken2-ISB
history -c # Clear history
```

## 🧮Testing
- We can easily show that there are 2 apache2 servers running with a load balancer in front of them. If we go to the IP address of the [Load Balancer](http://192.168.70.133), You can see that the server name e.g. `Webserver 1` is shown on the website and if you refresh the web page a few times you will see it change, so we are being redirected to another server.

- We can also see that they share a common [File](/Scripts/database.csv) so that the web pages are synchronized between the servers. If we change the background color on one server, the other server will also change the background color.

![Load Balancer In Action](/Images/test_of_loadbalancer.gif)

- We can also show that the servers are redundant by stopping one of the servers and refreshing the web page. The load balancer will redirect us to the other server.
```bash
sudo a2dissite webserver2.conf
sudo systemctl reload apache2
```
- The commands above would be an elegant solution, but this does not work. Because if we do this, the primary server that is currently hosting all of our instances will still be online and will give a response `404` back. So in other words, the load balancer will still think it can redirect to that server.

- So to test that our load balancer is working, we are simply going to add an IP address of a server that is not currently online.
```bash
sudo nano /etc/apache2/sites-available/loadbalancer.conf # BalancerMember "http://192.168.70.121:8003" retry=60 status=+H
sudo systemctl reload apache2
```

> **NOTE:** The first commands seen here would work perfectly if you were running both the load balancer and the two web servers on separate VMs or physical machines. But because we are running everything on one server, the commands above will not work. So we have to do it the way we did it.

## 🚀X Factor
- For our X Factor, we chose to do a price calculation of how expensive the network would be. We will calculate the price of the hardware and software we used in the network. So we provide a price for the routers, switches, servers, and software. And for the fun, we did it in a script.

```bash
#!/bin/bash

# Define hardware prices
declare -A hardware_prices=(
    [Router1]=1000
    [Router2]=1000
    [Router3]=1000
    [Switch1]=500
    [Switch2]=500
    [Switch3]=500
    [Server1]=2000
    [Server2]=2000
    [Server3]=2000
    [Server4]=2000
)

# Define software prices
declare -A software_prices=(
    [Pfsense]=0
    [Vyos]=0
    [Ubuntu]=0
    [Apache2]=0
    [Tailscale]=0
)

# Function to calculate total price
calculate_total_price() {
    local total=0
    for item in "${!hardware_prices[@]}" "${!software_prices[@]}"; do
        price=$(get_price "$item")
        if [[ -n $price ]]; then
            total=$((total + price))
        else
            echo "Price for $item not found." >&2
        fi
    done
    echo "$total"
}

# Function to get price for a particular item
get_price() {
    local item=$1
    local price

    if [[ -v hardware_prices[$item] ]]; then
        price=${hardware_prices[$item]}
    elif [[ -v software_prices[$item] ]]; then
        price=${software_prices[$item]}
    else
        return 1
    fi

    echo "$price"
}

# Function to print total price
print_total_price() {
    local total=$(calculate_total_price)
    echo "The total price of the network is $total"
}

# Main program
main() {
    print_total_price
}

# Execute main program
main
```

## 📁Attachments

### 📁Router Configurations
```conf

```

### 📁Firewall Configurations

#### Cisco IOS (Router 1):
```conf
conf t
!
access-list 101 permit tcp any any eq 80
access-list 101 permit tcp any any eq 443
!
interface GigabitEthernet1/0
description WAN to DMZ
ip access-group 101 in
exit
!
access-list 102 permit tcp any any eq 80
access-list 102 permit tcp any any eq 443
access-list 102 deny ip any any
!
interface GigabitEthernet0/0
description LAN to WAN
ip access-group 102 out
exit
!
interface Vlan1
description DMZ to LAN
ip access-group 101 in
exit
!
end
```
#### Cisco IOS (Router 2):
```conf
conf t
!
access-list 201 permit tcp any any eq 80
access-list 201 permit tcp any any eq 443
!
interface GigabitEthernet1/0
description WAN to DMZ
ip access-group 201 in
exit
!
access-list 202 permit tcp any any eq 80
access-list 202 permit tcp any any eq 443
access-list 202 deny ip any any
!
interface GigabitEthernet0/0
description LAN to WAN
ip access-group 202 out
exit
!
interface Vlan1
description DMZ to LAN
ip access-group 201 in
exit
!
end
```

### 📁Server Configurations & Scripts
[Scripts Folder](/Scripts)

### 📁Timesheets
| Name Student   | Date       | Time  | Description           |
|----------------|------------|-------|-----------------------|
| Elias De Hondt | 15/04/2024 | 2h    | Documentation         |
| Kobe Wijnants  | 15/04/2024 | 3h    | Documentation         |
| Elias De Hondt | 15/04/2024 | 3h    | Network Design        |
| Elias De Hondt | 15/04/2024 | 30min | Addressing/names      |
| Elias De Hondt | 15/04/2024 | 3h    | DMZ Services          |
| Elias De Hondt | 17/04/2024 | 30min | Testing               |
| Kobe Wijnants  | 20/04/2024 | 4h    | VPN Services          |
| Elias De Hondt | 21/04/2024 | 15min | Firewall Rules        |

### 📁DO TO
- [x] Documentation
- [x] Network Design
- [x] Addressing/names
- [x] Firewall Rules
- [x] DMZ Services
- [] Redundant Router
- [x] VPN Services
- [x] X-Factor

## 🔗References
- [Tailscale](https://tailscale.com)
- [Wireguard](https://www.wireguard.com)
- [Pfsense](https://www.pfsense.org)
- [Vyos](https://www.vyos.io)
- [Apache2](https://httpd.apache.org)
- [Ubuntu](https://ubuntu.com)
- [KDG](https://www.kdg.be)

Commit message:

Add new firewall rule to allow port 41641 from WAN to DMZ

Documentation/Documentation.md, after:

# 💙🤍Documentation🤍💙

## 📘Table of Contents

1. [📘Table of Contents](#📘table-of-contents)
2. [🖖Introduction](#🖖introduction)
3. [💩Group members](#💩group-members)
4. [🎨Network Design](#🎨network-design)
    1. [🎨Globel Design](#🎨globel-design)
    2. [🎨WAN Design](#🎨wan-design)
    3. [🎨DMZ Design](#🎨dmz-design)
    4. [🎨LAN Design](#🎨lan-design)
5. [🔎Addressing/names](#🔎addressingnames)
6. [🚬VPN Services](#🚬vpn-services)
    1. [🚬VPN Settings For A Client](#🚬vpn-settings-for-a-client)
    2. [🚬Server Settings](#🚬server-settings)
    3. [🚬VPN Test](#🚬vpn-test)
7. [🛡️Firewall Rules](#🛡️firewall-rules)
8. [🪖DMZ Services](#🪖dmz-services)
9. [🧮Testing](#🧮testing)
10. [🚀X Factor](#🚀x-factor)
11. [📁Attachments](#📁attachments)
    1. [📁Router Configurations](#📁router-configurations)
    2. [📁Firewall Configurations](#📁firewall-configurations)
    3. [📁Server Configurations & Scripts](#📁server-configurations--scripts)
    4. [📁Timesheets](#📁timesheets)
12. [🔗References](#🔗references)

---

## 🖖Introduction

This is the documentation for the project of the course `Network 2 - ISB` at the `KDG`. The goal of this project is to create a network with a DMZ, LAN, WAN, VPN, and a firewall. The network should be able to handle high availability, load balancing, and stress tests...

## 💩Group members

- Student 1: Elias De Hondt 0160712-80
- Student 2: Kobe Wijnants 0163403-55

## 🎨Network Design

### 🎨Globel Design
![Globel Design](/images/globel_design.png)

### 🎨WAN Design
![WAN Design](/images/wan_design.png)

### 🎨DMZ Design
![DMZ Design](/images/dmz_design.png)

### 🎨LAN Design
![LAN Design](/images/lan_design.png)

## 🔎Addressing/names

### 🔎Globel
| Name            | IP Address                  | Interface |
|-----------------|-----------------------------|-----------|
| Router 1        | 10.10.1.1, 255.255.255.254  | Gig0/0    |
| Router 2        | 10.10.1.5, 255.255.255.254  | Gig0/0    |
| Router 1        | 10.10.4.1, 255.255.255.0    | Gig1/0    |
| Router 2        | 10.10.4.2, 255.255.255.0    | Gig1/0    |

### 🔎LAN
| Name            | IP Address                  | Interface |
|-----------------|-----------------------------|-----------|
| Server 3 (DNS)  | 10.10.3.10, 255.255.255.0   | Fa0       |
| Server 4 (DHCP) | 10.10.3.11, 255.255.255.0   | Fa0       |
| Router 3        | 10.10.3.1, 255.255.255.0    | Gig2/0    |
| Router 3        | 10.10.1.2, 255.255.255.254  | Gig0/0    |
| Router 3        | 10.10.1.6, 255.255.255.254  | Gig1/0    |
| Switch 3        | 10.10.3.2, 255.255.255.0    | Lo0       |

### 🔎DMZ
| Name            | IP Address                  | Interface |
|-----------------|-----------------------------|-----------|
| Server 1 (Web)  | 10.10.4.10, 255.255.255.0   | Gig0      |
| Server 1 (Web)  | 10.10.4.11, 255.255.255.0   | Gig1      |
| Server 2 (Web)  | 10.10.4.12, 255.255.255.0   | Gig0      |
| Server 2 (Web)  | 10.10.4.13, 255.255.255.0   | Gig1      |

## 🚬VPN Services

As a VPN solution we will use tailscale, this is a zero-config VPN based on wireguard.

Tailscale utilizes WireGuard's encryption and authentication mechanisms to establish secure peer-to-peer connections between devices. It assigns each device a unique tailnet IP and has dashboard for easy maintainability.

### 🚬VPN Settings For A Client

#### 🚬Linux

- Open the terminal and run:

```bash
sudo curl -fsSL https://tailscale.com/install.sh | sh
```

- Enter the root password and run the following command

```bash
sudo tailscale up
```
- Copy and Paste the link in your browser and login

- Click Connect and you should be connected to the tailnet

#### 🚬Windows

- Download the following msi installer

[Tailscale Download](https://tailscale.com/download)

- Run the installer

- Click Next and Install

- Then login and you should be connected to the tailnet

### 🚬VPN Settings For A Server

- Open the terminal and run:

```bash
sudo curl -fsSL https://tailscale.com/install.sh | sh
```

- Enter the root password

- Request an auth key at: [Tailscale Login](https://login.tailscale.com/admin/settings/keys)

- Use the auth key in the following command and add `--ssh` so you can use tailscale ssh
```bash
sudo tailscale up --authkey=[Authkey] --ssh
```

- The server should now be connected to the tailnet

### 🚬VPN Settings For A Router

We will use a pfsense router for this because it has a package manager with a "Tailscale" package in it.

- Go to the package manager and install "Tailscale"

- Then, go to VPN > Tailscale > Authentication

- Request an auth key at: [Tailscale Login](https://login.tailscale.com/admin/settings/keys) and fill it in

- Then go to tailscale settings and enable the service

- Finnally advertise the subnet you want to share with your vpn clients

### 🚬VPN Test

- Ping to a DMZ service

The left powershell window is on my local machine, the right terminal is on a debian machine running docker with some web services.
On both machines tailscale is installed and working.

![ping to DMZ service](/Images/test_VPN_ping_to_DMZ_service.gif)

- Ping to router and ip's advertised by the router

## 🛡️Firewall Rules
- Router 1 (Gig1/0):
    - Allow port `80` from the `WAN` to the `DMZ`
    - Allow port `443` from the `WAN` to the `DMZ`
    - Allow port `41641` from the `WAN` to the `DMZ`
    - Allow port `80` from the `DMZ` to the `LAN`
    - Allow port `443` from the `DMZ` to the `LAN`
    - Deny all other traffic

- Router 1 (Gig0/0):
    - Deny all traffic from the `WAN` to the `LAN`
    - Allow port `80` from the `LAN` to the `WAN`
    - Allow port `443` from the `LAN` to the `WAN`
    - Allow port `80` from the `LAN` to the `DMZ`
    - Allow port `443` from the `LAN` to the `DMZ`

- Router 2 (Gig1/0):
    - Allow port `80` from the `WAN` to the `DMZ`
    - Allow port `443` from the `WAN` to the `DMZ`
    - Allow port `41641` from the `WAN` to the `DMZ`
    - Allow port `80` from the `DMZ` to the `LAN`
    - Allow port `443` from the `DMZ` to the `LAN`
    - Deny all other traffic

- Router 2 (Gig0/0):
    - Deny all traffic from the `WAN` to the `LAN`
    - Allow port `80` from the `LAN` to the `WAN`
    - Allow port `443` from the `LAN` to the `WAN`
    - Allow port `80` from the `LAN` to the `DMZ`
    - Allow port `443` from the `LAN` to the `DMZ`

## 🪖DMZ Services
- This will all be achieved with apache2 and a simple database a .csv file. A webpage will be hosted on multiple web servers. On this webpage, you can modify a value that will change the background color of the webpage. This new value will be stored in a file or database. Subsequently, the other web servers will be automatically updated with the new background.

- Database
    - [CSV File](/Scripts/database.csv)
- Apache2 Webserver 1
    - [Index File](/Scripts/index1.php)
    - [Apache2 Config](/Scripts/webserver1.conf)
- Apache2 Webserver 2
    - [Index File](/Scripts/index2.php)
    - [Apache2 Config](/Scripts/webserver2.conf)
- Apache2 Load Balancer
    - [Apache2 Config](/Scripts/loadbalancer.conf)

- Everything will be hosted on one Ubuntu server 20.04 LTS 64-bit with apache2 for the demo. See the [Network Design](#🎨network-design) for the real physical setup.

```bash
# Basic setup:
sudo apt update && sudo apt upgrade -y
sudo do-release-upgrade -d # Optional - upgrade to latest Ubuntu LTS
sudo apt install openssh-server -y
sudo apt install apache2 -y
sudo apt install php libapache2-mod-php -y
sudo apt install git -y
sudo a2enmod proxy proxy_http
sudo a2enmod lbmethod_byrequests

# Firewall Configuratie:
sudo ufw allow 22
sudo ufw allow 80
sudo ufw allow 8001
sudo ufw allow 8002
sudo ufw enable # Or sudo ufw disable

# Configure static IP for the server:
sudo nano /etc/netplan/00-installer-config.yaml
# Add the following:
network:
  version: 2
  renderer: networkd
  ethernets:
    ens33:
      dhcp4: no
      addresses: [192.168.70.133/24]
      gateway4: [192.168.70.1/24]
      nameservers:
        addresses: [8.8.8.8, 8.8.4.4]

sudo netplan apply

# Configure Webserver 1 & 2 + Load Balancer:
sudo rm -r /var/www/html
sudo rm -r /etc/apache2/sites-available/000-default.conf
sudo rm -r /etc/apache2/sites-available/default-ssl.conf
sudo rm -r /etc/apache2/sites-enabled/000-default.conf
git clone https://github.com/EliasDeHondt/Netwerken2-ISB.git
sudo mkdir /var/www/webserver1
sudo mkdir /var/www/webserver2
sudo cp Netwerken2-ISB/Scripts/index1.php /var/www/webserver1/
sudo cp Netwerken2-ISB/Scripts/index2.php /var/www/webserver2/
sudo cp Netwerken2-ISB/Scripts/webserver1.conf /etc/apache2/sites-available/
sudo cp Netwerken2-ISB/Scripts/webserver2.conf /etc/apache2/sites-available/
sudo cp Netwerken2-ISB/Scripts/loadbalancer.conf /etc/apache2/sites-available/
sudo a2ensite webserver1.conf
sudo a2ensite webserver2.conf
sudo a2ensite loadbalancer.conf

# Database setup:
sudo cp Netwerken2-ISB/Scripts/database.csv /var/www/
sudo chmod 755 /var/www/database.csv

# Clean up:
sudo systemctl reload apache2
sudo rm -r Netwerken2-ISB
history -c # Clear history
```

## 🧮Testing
- We can easily show that there are 2 apache2 servers running with a load balancer in front of them. If we go to the IP address of the [Load Balancer](http://192.168.70.133), You can see that the server name e.g. `Webserver 1` is shown on the website and if you refresh the web page a few times you will see it change, so we are being redirected to another server.

- We can also see that they share a common [File](/Scripts/database.csv) so that the web pages are synchronized between the servers. If we change the background color on one server, the other server will also change the background color.

![Load Balancer In Action](/Images/test_of_loadbalancer.gif)

- We can also show that the servers are redundant by stopping one of the servers and refreshing the web page. The load balancer will redirect us to the other server.
```bash
sudo a2dissite webserver2.conf
sudo systemctl reload apache2
```
- The commands above would be an elegant solution, but this does not work. Because if we do this, the primary server that is currently hosting all of our instances will still be online and will give a response `404` back. So in other words, the load balancer will still think it can redirect to that server.

- So to test that our load balancer is working, we are simply going to add an IP address of a server that is not currently online.
```bash
sudo nano /etc/apache2/sites-available/loadbalancer.conf # BalancerMember "http://192.168.70.121:8003" retry=60 status=+H
sudo systemctl reload apache2
```

> **NOTE:** The first commands seen here would work perfectly if you were running both the load balancer and the two web servers on separate VMs or physical machines. But because we are running everything on one server, the commands above will not work. So we have to do it the way we did it.

## 🚀X Factor
- For our X Factor, we chose to do a price calculation of how expensive the network would be. We will calculate the price of the hardware and software we used in the network. So we provide a price for the routers, switches, servers, and software. And for the fun, we did it in a script.

```bash
#!/bin/bash

# Define hardware prices
declare -A hardware_prices=(
    [Router1]=1000
    [Router2]=1000
    [Router3]=1000
    [Switch1]=500
    [Switch2]=500
    [Switch3]=500
    [Server1]=2000
    [Server2]=2000
    [Server3]=2000
    [Server4]=2000
)

# Define software prices
declare -A software_prices=(
    [Pfsense]=0
    [Vyos]=0
    [Ubuntu]=0
    [Apache2]=0
    [Tailscale]=0
)

# Function to calculate total price
calculate_total_price() {
    local total=0
    for item in "${!hardware_prices[@]}" "${!software_prices[@]}"; do
        price=$(get_price "$item")
        if [[ -n $price ]]; then
            total=$((total + price))
        else
            echo "Price for $item not found." >&2
        fi
    done
    echo "$total"
}

# Function to get price for a particular item
get_price() {
    local item=$1
    local price

    if [[ -v hardware_prices[$item] ]]; then
        price=${hardware_prices[$item]}
    elif [[ -v software_prices[$item] ]]; then
        price=${software_prices[$item]}
    else
        return 1
    fi

    echo "$price"
}

# Function to print total price
print_total_price() {
    local total=$(calculate_total_price)
    echo "The total price of the network is $total"
}

# Main program
main() {
    print_total_price
}

# Execute main program
main
```

## 📁Attachments

### 📁Router Configurations
```conf

```

### 📁Firewall Configurations

#### Cisco IOS (Router 1):
```conf
conf t
!
access-list 101 permit tcp any any eq 80
access-list 101 permit tcp any any eq 443
!
interface GigabitEthernet1/0
description WAN to DMZ
ip access-group 101 in
exit
!
access-list 102 permit tcp any any eq 80
access-list 102 permit tcp any any eq 443
access-list 102 deny ip any any
!
interface GigabitEthernet0/0
description LAN to WAN
ip access-group 102 out
exit
!
interface Vlan1
description DMZ to LAN
ip access-group 101 in
exit
!
end
```
#### Cisco IOS (Router 2):
```conf
conf t
!
access-list 201 permit tcp any any eq 80
access-list 201 permit tcp any any eq 443
!
interface GigabitEthernet1/0
description WAN to DMZ
ip access-group 201 in
exit
!
access-list 202 permit tcp any any eq 80
access-list 202 permit tcp any any eq 443
access-list 202 deny ip any any
!
interface GigabitEthernet0/0
description LAN to WAN
ip access-group 202 out
exit
!
interface Vlan1
description DMZ to LAN
ip access-group 201 in
exit
!
end
```

### 📁Server Configurations & Scripts
[Scripts Folder](/Scripts)

### 📁Timesheets
| Name Student   | Date       | Time  | Description           |
|----------------|------------|-------|-----------------------|
| Elias De Hondt | 15/04/2024 | 2h    | Documentation         |
| Kobe Wijnants  | 15/04/2024 | 3h    | Documentation         |
| Elias De Hondt | 15/04/2024 | 3h    | Network Design        |
| Elias De Hondt | 15/04/2024 | 30min | Addressing/names      |
| Elias De Hondt | 15/04/2024 | 3h    | DMZ Services          |
| Elias De Hondt | 17/04/2024 | 30min | Testing               |
| Kobe Wijnants  | 20/04/2024 | 4h    | VPN Services          |
| Elias De Hondt | 21/04/2024 | 15min | Firewall Rules        |

### 📁DO TO
- [x] Documentation
- [x] Network Design
- [x] Addressing/names
- [x] Firewall Rules
- [x] DMZ Services
- [] Redundant Router
- [x] VPN Services
- [x] X-Factor

## 🔗References
- [Tailscale](https://tailscale.com)
- [Wireguard](https://www.wireguard.com)
- [Pfsense](https://www.pfsense.org)
- [Vyos](https://www.vyos.io)
- [Apache2](https://httpd.apache.org)
- [Ubuntu](https://ubuntu.com)
- [KDG](https://www.kdg.be)
